Q: Define the terms: method, class, function, field, variable
Q: Define the terms in relation to each other. ie a method is a function, defined within an object…a function is…

Define the following terms:
Method:
A method is a function that is part of a class.  Methods are defined at the top layer of the class.

Class:
Is a container of one or more related functions.  It is like a blueprint it contains the detailed instructions for an
objects construction and use.  It defines the fields (properties) and methods.

Function:
The smallest building block in Java is a function.  A function is a block of code that performs a task.

Field:
A Field is a data member of a class. Unless specified otherwise, a field can be public, static, not static and final.
Property It is also used for fields, it typically has getter and setter combination. At its most basic, a Java field
is a variable. This means that it represents a value, such as a numerical value or a text. Fields are declared within
classes of a code. An attribute is another term for a field. It’s typically a public field that can be accessed
directly. ii


Variable:
Variable A variable is the name given to a memory location. It is the basic unit of storage in a program.
The value stored in a variable can be changed during program execution. Each variable has a type.

Access Modifier:
Access modifiers enable you to limit how programmers access given classes. This actually fulfills a key principle of
object-oriented programming—encapsulation.


Define the terms in relation to each other. ie a method is a function, defined within an object…a function is…
The smallest building block in Java is a function.  A function is a block of code that performs a task.

A function consist of a ReturnType (such as "void") and aName(itsParameters) {andJavaCode}.
Each Java program should have an entry point "main(){}" whenever a Java program is executed it runs the code
within the "main". The main function must belong to a "class" the class for main is: Main{} note that M is
capitalized (uses PNC) and Main is preceded with curley braces. Preceding the class and returnType is an access modifier
which is a keyword placed before attributes, methods, or classes to manage how they're accessed (restrictions).
(Note: main must include static)


---------------------------------------------Modifiers---------------------------------------------------
Default:
When you don't explicitly define a modifier, the Java compiler will use the default visibility access. So only classes
in the same package as the defined class can access its variables or methods.
Public:
This modifier allows members of a class to be accessed in all packages. Simply put, you can access them everywhere.
The public modifier provides the least restrictive level of access.
Protected:
Allows members of a class to be accessed within the class and its sub-classes. It can provide access outside a package
only through inheritance. Unlike the two previous modifiers, protected "can only be used with members of a class, not
the class itself."
Private:
This modifier allows members of a class to only be accessed within the class.


Q: Know the difference between interpreted and compiled languages
Define the terms and explain the difference between interpreted and compiled in your terms of art text document.

In a compiled language, the target machine directly translates the program. In an interpreted language,
the source code is not directly translated by the target machine. Instead, a different program, aka the interpreter,
reads and executes the code.  JIT compilers interact with the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) at run time and compile
suitable bytecode sequences into native machine code. While using a JIT compiler, the hardware is able to execute
the native code, as compared to having the JVM interpret the same sequence of bytecode repeatedly and incurring an
overhead for the translation process.








* The "static" keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management. The static keyword in Java is used to share the same
variable or method of a given class. The users can apply static keywords with variables, methods, blocks, and nested classes.
The static keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class. The static keyword is used for a constant variable or
a method that is the same for every instance of a class.i


Reference:
i https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/static-keyword-java/

Notes:
Access modifiers are also sometimes referred to as visibility modifiers.
Visibility modifiers enable you to limit how programmers access given classes. This actually fulfills a
PNC = Pascal Naming Convention (Classes)
CNC = Camel Naming Convention (methods)

A constructor in Java is similar to method it's invoked at the time creating an object of the class, it is
generally used to initialize the instance variables of a class. The constructors have the same name as their class
and, have no return type.If you do not provide a constructor the compiler defines one on your behalf, which initializes
the instance variables with default values. You can also accept parameters through constructors and initialize the
instance variables of a class using the given values, these are known as parameterized constructors.
constructor is a method which is called when object of the class is instantiated. It is used to set default values
to the attributes of the class.The name of the constructor is the same as the class name. Getters and Setters are
methods that are used to access the attributes of an object. The attributes are mostly kept private so that we cannot
access them directly so the getter and setter are used to access them. These methods are mostly public but never private.
hope it helps


123456
